Fraud Detection
The private nature of financial transactions has lead to insufficient data available for researchers specifically in fraud detection domain. As a result, the current project utilizes simulated data generated by PaySim data simulator. This simulator uses financial logs of a mobile money service and then generates synthetic dataset of money transactions that resembles normal transactions. The simulator will then introduces fraudulent transactions for the purpose of evaluating fraud detection methods. In this project, a 25% scaled-down subset of the original dataset is downloaded from Kaggle for data visualization purposes. For machine learning, this dataset is further downsized to allow the model to run within author's computer capabilities. 

The data were first inspected in order to understand the data pattern and dataset structure. Several plots have been created in order to visualize the relationship between account types, transaction time, amount transferred, original, and destination account balances with whether or not the transaction is marked as fraud.

The dataset were then modified to exclude variables that have no bearing on transactions being fraudulent or not (e.g., original account name). The modified dataset is then splitted into training and validation sets. In order to avoid overtraining, the training dataset is further splitted into "training set split" and "test set". Several different algorithms were trained using the "training set split" to predict the fraudulent activities. As the aim of this model is a binary classification (whether a tranaction is fraud or not), the accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of the predictive algorithms are compared to one another in order to choose the algorithm of choice. The final algorithm was then tested on validation (unkown) set.
